you remember these glow-in-the-dark
little stars which you had on the
ceiling when you were a boy or ago yes
it is light it is pure light I think
I've been staring at them way too long
when I was a five-year-old you know it's
so beautiful no energy bill no
maintenance it is there so two years ago
we went back to the lab making it more
durable more light emitting with the
experts and at the same time we got a
request from this guy van Gogh the
famous van Gogh Foundation who wanted to
celebrate his hundred 25th anniversary
in the Netherlands and they came to me
and asked can you make a place where he
feels more alive again in the
Netherlands and I like that question a
lot so in a way we sort of started to
connect these two different worlds this
is how my brain works by the way I would
love to keep on doing this for an hour
but okay and this is the result that we
made a bicycle path which charges a day
time via the Sun and glows at night up
to eight hours thank you
hinting hinting towards a future which
should be energy friendly and linking up
the local grounds as van Gogh literally
walked and lived there in 1883 and you
can go there every night for free no
ticket needed people experience the
beauty of cycling through the starry
night thinking about green energy safety
you know I want to play create places
where people feel connected again and it
was somehow great to sort of make these
kind of projects happen with the
industry with the infrastructure
companies you know somebody shake some
qatar which started to call how much for
ten kilometres yeah really it's that's a
weird call you're gonna get but it's
fascinating that this is not just a sort
of one-off nice to have special I think
this kind of creative thinking these
kind of connections it's the new economy
world economic forum man the think-tank
in Geneva made an interview with a lot
of smart people all around the world
asking what are the top ten skills you
and I need to become
and what is interesting what you see
here it's not about money
hey or being really good in C++
although these are great skills to have
I have to admit but look at number three
creativity number two critical thinking
number one problem solving complex
problem solving all the things robots or
a computer is really bad at yes and this
makes me very optimistic very hopeful
for the new world that as we will live
in this hyper technological world our
human skills our desire for empathy our
desire for curiosity our desire for
beauty will be more appreciated again
and we will live in a world where
creativity is our true capital and a
process like that a creative process
like that I don't know how it works for
you but in my brain it always starts
with a question why why does it
jellyfish emit lights or a Firefly or
why do we accept pollution this is from
my room in Beijing three years ago left
image is a good day Saturday I can see
the cars and the people the birds life
is ok in a dense urban city and then on
the right image holy-moly yeah you know
pollution complete layered I couldn't
even see the other side of the city and
this image made me really sad this is
not the bright future we envision here
at Ted this is the horror we live 5 to 6
years shorter children have lung cancer
when they're 6 years old and so in a
weird beautiful way I at that moment
became inspired by Beijing smoke and the
governments all around the world are
fighting their war on smoke but I wanted
to make something within the now and so
we decided to build the largest smoke
vacuum cleaner in the world so it sucks
up polluted air cleans it and then
releases it and we built the first one
so it sucks up 30,000 cubic meter per
hour cleans it on a nano level had a PM
2.5 PM 10 particles using very little
electricity and then releasing the clean
air so we have parks playgrounds which
are 55 to 75 percent more clean than the
rest of the city
yes and and every month or so it opens
like a spaceship like a like a Marilyn
Monroe with the well you know what
anyway so this this is the stuff we are
capturing this is Beijing smoke this is
in our lungs right now if you live next
to a highway it's the same as 17
cigarettes per day are we in saying when
did we say yes to that and we had
buckets of this disgusting material in
in in our studio and on a Monday morning
we were discussing or like what
should we do with it should we throw it
away and like like like help and then we
realize no no no we should not exist
waste for the one should be food for the
other so here maybe show the rounds do
not put this in your coffee and we
realize that 42% is made out of carbon
and carbon of course on the high
pressure you get diamonds yes so
inspired by that we compress it for 30
minutes and making smoke three rings and
so by sharing or really yes so by
sharing a ring you donate a thousand
cubic meter of clean air to the city
where the tower is in yeah
and one here then oh you know everything
cube yeah I won't give one to you I'm
not gonna propose don't worry are we
good yeah we're good you can share it
around and we put this online
Kickstarter campaign crowdfunding and
people started to pre-order it but more
importantly they started to pre pay it
so the finance we made with the jury
helped us to realize to build the first
tower and that's powerful so the waste
was the activator it was the enabler
also the feedback from community this is
a wedding couple from India where he
proposed to her with the smoke free ring
as a sign of true beauty as a sign of
hope and she said yes I love this image
so much for a lot of different reasons
yeah and right now the project is
touring through China actually with the
support of China central governments
so the goal the first goal is to create
local clean air parks and that works
already quite well
55 75 percent more clean and at the same
time we team up with the NGOs with the
governor's with the students with the
tech people to say hey what do we need
to do to make a whole city smoke-free
it's about the dream of clean air we do
workshops new ideas pop up these are
smoke-free bicycles which untouched as I
have this bicycle DNA aside of me
somewhere and so we sucks up polluted
air it cleans it and it releases it in
the fight against the car in the
celebration of the bicycle and so right
now we're working on a sort of package
deal so to speak where we say smoke free
towers smoke free rings we go to the
mayor's or the governors of this world
and say we can guarantee a short-term
reduction of pollution between 2020 and
40% please sign here right now yes so
it's all about connecting new technology
with creative thinking and if you start
thinking about that you know there's so
much to you you can imagine so much more
you can do we worked on dance floors
which produce electricity when you dance
on it this was we did the design for
that 2008 so it moves eight or nine
millimeters produces 25 watts the
electricity that we generate is used for
the lighting or the DJ booth so suddenly
sustainability is about doing more not
about doing less but also on a larger
scale the Netherlands where I'm from we
live below sea level so because of these
beauties the flight deck 32 kilometer
built by hand in 1932 we live with the
water we fight with the water we try to
find harmony but sometimes we forget and
therefore really made vital it's a
combination of LEDs and lenses which
show how high the water level would be
global change if we stop if like today
we all go home and we say oh whatever
somebody else will do it for us here we
wait for government or whatever you know
we're not gonna do that it goes wrong
and we place this in public spaces all
around the world thousands of people
showed up
thank you you're too nice that's nice
that's not good for a designer yeah so
thousands of people showed up and and
some actually were scared and they left
they experienced the floods in 1953 and
others were mesmerized can we make
floating cities can we generate
electricity from the change in tides so
I think it's so important to make
experiences collective experience where
people feel connected with vision with
the future and triggering what is
possible at the same time you know these
kind of things they're not easy yes it's
a struggle and what I experienced in my
life is that a lot of people say they
want innovation that I want the next and
the new the future but the moment you
present a new idea there's this weird
tendency to reply every new idea
starting with two words which is now not
how much it's more annoying what is it
guys or you're really blessed people
that's really good yes but very good yes
but it's too expensive it's too cheap
too fast it's too slow it's too
beautiful to ugly it cannot be done it
already exists I have heard everything
about the same project in the same week
and I got really really annoyed I got a
bit like gray hair started to dress
black like a like a true architect and
and one morning I woke up and I sit down
stop this is dragging you down you have
to do something with this you have to
use it as an ingredient as a component
and so we decided to build to realize
the famous
yesBut chair
and this is an existing chair by frieszo
camera at Dutch design but we gave it a
little update a little hack so to speak
and so we place the little voice
recognition elements right here and so
the moment you sit on that chair and you
say those two horrible creative
destructive annoying little words you
get a short but pretty intense little
shock on the backside of your button and
that works yeah that works so some
clients have left us reading ahead
fortunately the good ones have stayed
and of course we also apply it to
ourselves but ladies and gentlemen let's
not be afraid let's be curious yes and
you know walking through Tet in these
days and hearing the other speakers and
and and and feeling the energy of the
crowds I was remembering this quote of
the Canadian offer Marshall McLuhan who
once famously said on spacecraft earth
there are no passengers we are all crew
and I think this is so beautiful this is
so beautiful
we're not just consumers we're makers we
make decisions we make new inventions we
make new dreams and I think if we start
implementing that kind of thinking even
more within today there's still a whole
new world to be explored all right thank
you
[Applause]
[Music]